---
layout: post
title: Weekend of Oct 11-12th
---

<h3>Saturday</h3>

<p>Woke up early. Had a fight with the cat. Went back to
sleep. Eventually got up around 8am, went down the street to get bread
and the paper. Came back, had breakfast and read the paper. How about
Matty Hayden?! Wish I could bat like that...</p>

<p>Took the obligatory trip up to Greensborough to check out proceedings
on the house. They've built the fscking walls!! So much for letting me
know so I could run cables. :( Called Jo to tell her the (good|bad)
news. Spoke to Kian, who told me he's missing me. *choke* He's too
cute! I assured him I was missing him very much too (which I am).</p>

<p>Anyway, by time I got back home it was time for cricket. It had been a
pretty miserable morning, weather wise, but was clearing into a
perfect afternoon for it. I was one of the opening the bowlers, but
had a bit of trouble with consistency. Ended up with 0/31 off ten
overs, not too bad but not great. We finished our game early with a
win, so I was settling in to watch the firsts when Kemp called and
said they needed an extra fielder in the 3rds game, so I drove into to
the Brunswick St oval to help out.</p>

<p>With my outstanding contribution (well, I stood in the outfield,
that's the same thing), the 3rds managed an outright win, to make it
four wins for the club! Great opening round. Had a beer with the boys,
went home. Aimee SMSed to say she was going to the Harp, but I was too
sore and tired so stayed home and went to bed.</p>

<h3>Sunday</h3>

<p>Quiet morning, tried to sleep in. Bloody cat. Spoke to mum (it's her
birthday), had leisurely breakfast. Decided to go and see Whitehorse's
production of 42nd Street. I got there, and discovered that none of
the usual lighting crew were doing the show. Oh well, pretty good show
anyway, but I'm really not a fan of Jamie's lighting. The sound was
surprisingly good. Band and cast good as usual.</p>

<p>Went home feeling all melancholy, wanting to run away to the theatre
again. There's a surprise for you! Anyway, I offered to help with the
bump out next week, so I'm going back at 7:30am on Sunday. Good grief.</p>

