PHP can't talk to MySQL after OS X 10.4.5 upgrade

I just tried to access one of my local dev sites (that is, running on
my powerbook), and received the dreaded "mysql can't connect to
socket" error:

    Can't connect to local MySQL server through socket '/var/mysql/mysql.sock'

I was sure MySQL was running (I could access it via the command line
mysql tool, and MySQL Administrator). And it *used* to work... But
sure enough, there is no directory /var/mysql, and no mysql.sock file
in it. :-/

After a bit of digging around, I noticed that the php.ini file
(/etc/php.ini.default) had been updated on Feb 8th, about the time
OS X 10.4.5 was released. Hmm.

I don't remember customising this file, but it certainly didn't
contain any customisation now. The "mysql.default_socket" setting was
blank, meaning it would use the compiled-in default. I'm not sure
whether PHP was upgraded with 10.4.5 and this changed the default, or
if I had customised it previously and I've just forgotten. But either
way, it was now looking for the MySQL socket in /var/mysql, and my
version of MySQL (4.0.24) wasn't putting it there.

So I created this dir and set its owner to mysql:

    sudo mkdir /var/mysql
    sudo chown mysql /var/mysql 

and followed the instructions in this Apple support [article][1] by
adding the following setting to /etc/my.cnf:

    [mysqld]
    socket = /var/mysql/mysql.sock

    [mysql]
    socket = /var/mysql/mysql.sock

(The last two lines are not mentioned in the Apple article, but are
required for the command line mysql utilities to work.)

A quick restart of the mysql server later, and all is good again.

[1]: http://docs.info.apple.com/article.html?artnum=301457
