---
layout: post
title: All's well that ends well
date: "2005-10-21"
url: "/2005/10/ends_well.html"
---

Two weeks ago, I was sitting at the table eating breakfast and
browsing the news on my [Powerbook][], as I am want to do. In front of me
was my bowl of cereal, and to my right, the carton of milk. And just
beyond that, my two year old daughter.

You can probably guess what happened next.

The milk went over the front half of the Powerbook, luckily missing
the keyboard and speakers. It still seemed to work ok, so I mopped up,
packed up and went to work.

When I got there, I noticed the lid catch was a little sticky, but it
opened ok and still worked. At the end of the day, I shut the lid and
came home.

This was when things turned bad. That evening, I opened up the
Powerbook to check my email, and was more than a little disturbed to
find the bottom two thirds of my screen didn't work. Like, it was
black. And then, it wasn't black, but wasn't being refreshed. *weep*

I found that by moving the screen back and forth, I could usually get
it to come good, but it wasn't very satisfactory. It seemed get better
the longer it was on... probably heat related. But it was pretty much
unusable when first fired up.

The service guys at my [local][] AppleCentre had a look, and were
suitably impressed. They thought it might just be a loose connection,
since the screen cable runs down to the front to connect to the logic
board. Or it could be a fried logic board, which would only cost about
AUD2,500 to replace. *Sigh*

Anyway, they booked it in, and called me on Wednesday to say they had
time to look at it. So I took it in yesterday. I spent a nervous day
working on my linux box, and hardly ever checking the Apple site to
review the specs of the newly announced upgraded Powerbooks...

That afternoon, they called with the good news... There was nothing
obvious wrong with the hardware, so they just stripped it down,
cleaned everything up, re-seated the connectors and put it back
together. And that seemed to do the trick. :-D

So now I have my baby back, and it seems as good as new. A happy
ending to a potentially disastrous story. And now I make sure there is
a good distance between open milk cartons and children.

[local]: http://www.power.com.au/
[Powerbook]: http://www.apple.com/au/powerbook/
